Breast Cancer Follow-Up and Management After Primary Treatment

Guideline Status: Review in Progress
Published in Journal of Clinical Oncology, Vol 3, Issue 7 (March), 2013: 961-965
James L. Khatcheressian, Patricia Hurley, Elissa Bantug, Laura J. Esserman, Eva Grunfeld, Francine Halberg, Alexander Hantel, N. Lynn Henry, Hyman B. Muss, Thomas J. Smith, Victor G. Vogel, Antonio C. Wolff, Mark R. Somerfield, and Nancy E. Davidson
Purpose
To provide recommendations on the follow-up and management of patients with breast cancer who have completed primary therapy with curative intent.
Methods
To update the 2006 guideline of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), a systematic review of the literature published from March 2006 through March 2012 was completed using MEDLINE and the Cochrane Collaboration Library. An Update Committee reviewed the evidence to determine whether the recommendations were in need of updating.
Results
There were 14 new publications that met inclusion criteria: nine systematic reviews (three included meta-analyses) and five randomized controlled trials. After its review and analysis of the evidence, the Update Committee concluded that no revisions to the existing ASCO recommendations were warranted.
Recommendations
Regular history, physical examination, and mammography are recommended for breast cancer follow-up. Physical examinations should be performed every 3 to 6 months for the first 3 years, every 6 to 12 months for years 4 and 5, and annually thereafter. For women who have undergone breast-conserving surgery, a post-treatment mammogram should be obtained 1 year after the initial mammogram and at least 6 months after completion of radiation therapy. Thereafter, unless otherwise indicated, a yearly mammographic evaluation should be performed. The use of complete blood counts, chemistry panels, bone scans, chest radiographs, liver ultrasounds, pelvic ultrasounds, computed tomography scans, [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose–positron emission tomography scans, magnetic resonance imaging, and/or tumor markers (carcinoembryonic antigen, CA 15-3, and CA 27.29) is not recommended for routine follow-up in an otherwise asymptomatic patient with no specific findings on clinical examination.
© 2019 American Society of Clinical Oncology, all rights reserved. For licensing opportunities, contact licensing@asco.org.
