Endocrine Therapy for Hormone Receptor-Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer

Guideline Status: Current
Published online before print November 19, 2018. DOI: 10.1200/JCO.18.01160
Harold J. Burstein, Christina Lacchetti, Holly Anderson Thomas A. Buchholz, Nancy E. Davidson, Karen A. Gelmon,Sharon H. Giordano, Clifford A. Hudis, Alexander J. Solky, Vered Stearns, Eric P. Winer, and Jennifer J. Griggs
For information on treating patients with triple negative breast cancer during drug shortages, click here.
  Purpose
To update the ASCO clinical practice guideline on adjuvant endocrine therapy based on emerging data about the optimal duration of aromatase inhibitor (AI) treatment.
Methods
ASCO conducted a systematic review of randomized clinical trials from 2012 to 2018. Guideline recommendations were based on the Panel’s review of the evidence from six trials.
Results
The six included studies of AI treatment beyond 5 years of therapy demonstrated that extension of AI treatment was not associated with an overall survival advantage but was significantly associated with lower risks of breast cancer recurrence and contralateral breast cancer compared with placebo. Bone-related toxic effects were more common with extended AI treatment.
Recommendations
The Panel recommends that women with node-positive breast cancer receive extended therapy, including an AI, for up to a total of 10 years of adjuvant endocrine treatment. Many women with node-negative breast cancer should consider extended therapy for up to a total of 10 years of adjuvant endocrine treatment based on considerations of recurrence risk using established prognostic factors. The Panel noted that the benefits in absolute risk of reduction were modest and that, for lower-risk node-negative or limited node-positive cancers, an individualized approach to treatment duration that is based on considerations of risk reduction and tolerability was appropriate. A substantial portion of the benefit for extended adjuvant AI therapy was derived from prevention of second breast cancers. Shared decision making between clinicians and patients is appropriate for decisions about extended adjuvant endocrine treatment, including discussions about the absolute benefits in the reduction of breast cancer recurrence, the prevention of second breast cancers, and the impact of adverse effects of treatment.
© 2019 American Society of Clinical Oncology, all rights reserved. For licensing opportunities, contact licensing@asco.org.
