Integrative Therapies During and After Breast Cancer Treatment

Guideline Status: Current
Published ahead of print June 11, 2018, DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2018.79.2721
Gary H. Lyman, Heather Greenlee, Kari Bohlke, Ting Bao, Angela M. DeMichele, Gary E. Deng, Judith M. Fouladbakhsh, Brigitte Gil, Dawn L. Hershman, Sami Mansfield, Dawn M. Mussallem, Karen M. Mustian, Erin Price, Susan Rafte, and Lorenzo Cohen
Purpose
The Society for Integrative Oncology (SIO) produced an evidence-based guideline on use of integrative therapies during and after breast cancer treatment thatwas determined to be relevant to the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) membership. ASCO considered the guideline for endorsement.
Methods
The SIO guideline addressed the use of integrative therapies for the management of symptoms and adverse effects, such as anxiety and stress, mood disorders, fatigue, quality of life, chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, lymphedema, chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, pain, and sleep disturbance. Interventions of interest included mind and body practices, natural products, and lifestyle modifications. SIO systematic reviews focused on randomized controlled trials that were published from 1990 through 2015. The SIO guideline was reviewed by ASCO content experts for clinical accuracy and by ASCO methodologists for developmental rigor. On favorable review, an ASCO Expert Panel was convened to review the guideline contents and recommendations.
Results
The ASCO Expert Panel determined that the recommendations in the SIO guideline—published in 2017—are clear, thorough, and based on the most relevant scientific evidence. ASCO endorsed the guideline with a few added discussion points.
Recommendations
Key recommendations include the following: Music therapy, meditation, stress management, and yoga are recommended for anxiety/stress reduction. Meditation, relaxation, yoga, massage, and music therapy are recommended for depression/mood disorders. Meditation and yoga are recommended to improve quality of life. Acupressure and acupuncture are recommended for reducing chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. Acetyl-L-carnitine is not recommended to prevent chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy because of a possibility of harm. No strong evidence supports the use of ingested dietary supplements to manage breast cancer treatment–related adverse effects.
© 2019 American Society of Clinical Oncology, all rights reserved. For licensing opportunities, contact licensing@asco.org.
