Selection of Optimal Adjuvant Chemotherapy and Targeted Therapy for Early Breast Cancer

Guideline Status: Current
Rapid Recommendation Update
Published Online November 15, 2021
Updated Recommendation: Based on a secondary pre-defined analysis conducted by the FDA , two years of abemaciclib (150 mg twice daily) plus ET may be offered to patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative, node-positive early breast cancer with a high risk of recurrence and a Ki-67 score of  ≥20% as determined by an FDA-approved test. (Type: evidence-based, benefits outweigh harms; Evidence quality: moderate; Strength of recommendation: strong). 
The Panel also recommends, based on analyses reported by Harbeck et al, that abemaciclib for two years plus ET for ≥5 years may be offered to the broader intent-to-treat population of patients with resected, HR-positive, HER2-negative, node-positive, early breast cancer at high risk of recurrence, defined as having > 4 positive axillary lymph nodes, or as having 1-3 positive axillary lymph nodes and one or more of the following features: histologic grade 3 disease, tumor size > 5 cm, or Ki-67 index > 20%. (Type: evidence-based, benefits outweigh harms; Evidence quality: moderate; Strength of recommendation: strong). 
Qualifying Statements: Although exploratory analyses suggested similar HRs in favor of abemaciclib regardless of Ki-67 status, there were relatively few Ki-67 low tumors in monarchE.   When discussing treatment options with patients, the potential benefits (improved IDFS) should be weighed against the potential harms (treatment toxicity, financial cost).
2020 Guideline Abstract 
Published online before print October 20, 2020, DOI: 10.1200/JCO.20.02510
Neelima Denduluri, MD; Mark R. Somerfield, PhD; Mariana Chavez-MacGregor, MD, MSc; Amy H. Comander, MD; Zoneddy Dayao, MD; Andrea Eisen, MD; Rachel A. Freedman, MD, MPH; Ragisha Gopalakrishnan, MD; Stephanie L. Graff, MD; Michael J. Hassett, MD, MPH; Tari A. King, MD; Gary H. Lyman, MD, MPH; Gillian Rice Maupin, JD; Raquel Nunes, MD; Cheryl L. Perkins, MD, RPh; Melinda L. Telli, MD; Maureen E. Trudeau, MD; Antonio C. Wolff, MD; and Sharon H. Giordano, MD, MPH
Purpose
The aim of this work is to update key recommendations of the ASCO guideline adaptation of the Cancer Care Ontario guideline on the selection of optimal adjuvant chemotherapy regimens for early breast cancer and adjuvant targeted therapy for breast cancer.
Methods
An Expert Panel conducted a targeted systematic literature review guided by a signals approach to identify new, potentially practice-changing data that might translate into revised guideline recommendations.
Results
The Expert Panel reviewed abstracts from the literature review and identified one article for inclusion that reported results of the phase III, open-label KATHERINE trial. In the KATHERINE trial, patients with stage I to III human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)–positive breast cancer with residual invasive disease in the breast or axilla after completing neoadjuvant chemotherapy and HER2-targeted therapy were allocated to adjuvant trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1; n = 743) or to trastuzumab (n = 743). Invasive disease–free survival was significantly higher in the T-DM1 group than in the trastuzumab arm (hazard ratio, 0.50; 95% CI, 0.39 to 0.64; P < .001), and risk of distant recurrence was lower in patients who received T-DM1 than in patients who received trastuzumab (hazard ratio, 0.60; 95% CI, 0.45 to 0.79). Grade 3 or higher adverse events occurred in 190 patients (25.7%) who received T-DM1 and in 111 patients (15.4%) who received trastuzumab.
Recommendations
Patients with HER2-positive breast cancer with pathologic invasive residual disease at surgery after standard preoperative chemotherapy and HER2-targeted therapy should be offered 14 cycles of adjuvant T-DM1, unless there is disease recurrence or unmanageable toxicity. Clinicians may offer any of the available and approved formulations of trastuzumab, including trastuzumab, trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk, and available biosimilars.
© 2020 American Society of Clinical Oncology, all rights reserved. For licensing opportunities, contact licensing@asco.org. 
